the three topics we're going to hit
today are as follows first and don't be
scared by that number the 15 signs of a
strategic SAS metrics problem um and yes
we're going to spend a lot of time on
the problem today we'll spend some time
on the solution but we're going to spend
time on the problem first because it's
fun right we get to talk about the silly
things we do and the silly things we see
uh and second because by understanding
the problem hopefully that will lead us
to a solution so we're going to go
through the 15 signs of a SAS metrics
problem then I'm going to introduce a
SAS metric maturity model I built so a
little five level five layer model
designed to help you go oh I think my
company's roughly here we're at level
two and if we want to get better you
know we should work towards level three
and then we'll look at the things you do
in each level to try and move the ball
forward so that's our agenda today let's
Jump Right In and start talking about
the 15 signs of a SAS metrics problem
the first sign one of my personal
favorites is what I call bludgeoning uh
where where SAS metrics are used not as
a tool of understanding right we're not
trying to make the business better we're
not trying to understand our business
we're trying to Club people with numbers
right and Boards do this to CEOs they
Club your behind plan your over budget
cogs is too low too high right we can
Club the CEO CEOs in turn can pass along
the face
right they can Club the cro quot
attainment isn't where it's supposed to
be productivity is too low and you know
you know it's really a case of
bludgeoning when somebody goes you know
we missed the lead number the CMO is
like we just haven't counted leads in
two years we don't care about leads
we're all about pipeline right so you're
literally clubbing me just for the sake
of clubbing me with a number that isn't
actually relevant to my business so the
first sign that there's a problem is
kind of this abusive use of metrics to
kind of blood buing people to use them
as a tool of almost oppression not as a
tool of Enlightenment or understanding
now this can lead to our second problem
which is misleading where people use SAS
metrics to mislead people in numbers of
ways one might be because they're afraid
of being budged right the other might be
because they don't have what I would
call a functional relationship with the
board and they see the board meaning is
something to survive right we don't
actually want to have an open honest
conversation with our board and look at
the numbers together and to understand
what's happening we just want to survive
that meeting feed him see you know feed
him some BS and go back to work live to
fight another day this is a reason uh
that some people do misleading right
there's lots of different motivations
behind it but those are two popular ones
I've seen I'll give you the world's
simplest example of misleading which is
this table it's a perfectly good table
nothing wrong with that table actual one
planed for last quarter it's a little
ARR Bridge starting plus new minus churn
equals ending but somebody stands up and
says we had a good quarter last quarter
we ended 96% a plan how do you feel
about
that I feel angry when I see that right
because we didn't end at 96% we used a
12.5 million stabilizer right called
starting ARR to damp out the fluctuation
in plan performance that's what we
actually did by saying we're 96% of plan
the CFO says it I'm maybe a little angry
the V P sales says it I'm super angry
right because the CFO gets to talk about
results sometimes more than drivers so
you know what we should be talking about
in this slide is this that we're 60% of
new logo ARR dramatic problem we're 93%
in expansion so not bad 73% on new AR
we're actually 100% of churn AR thank
you customer success um but overall
we're 60% on net new AR meaning our burn
multiple for people who like that SAS
metric and it's increasingly popular in
this day and age our burn multiple will
be almost double plan right because our
net new AR is almost half plan right so
this is a kind of semi catastrophic
quarter and you could simply and it look
the most common form of misleading is
what I call cherry-picking right you
just don't put up the bad numbers right
you put up different numbers every
quarter that's the most common form and
this is not cherry-picking this is
putting them all up there but simple
through this kind of slight of hand of
just talking about the 96%
that story that we tell about the
numbers is kind of a lie so that's our
second sign of a problem where people
use metrics to mislead uh the third Deja
Vu so you go to the same board meeting
every quarter you're like does anything
ever change at this company I feel like
we had this conversation last meeting
and I feel like we had this conversation
the meeting before I think we had this
conversation the meeting before that
right and well this is not a direct
symptom of a SAS metrics problem I would
argue it's an indirect system symptom
that the companies I work with that kind
of have their metrics act together don't
have the deja vu problem because the
numbers are telling us what's not
working and look it may be very hard to
fix it sometimes these problems takes
quarters to fix but at least we can say
hey we're having trouble in mid-market
we tried this new messaging we thought
it would conv conversion rates it didn't
so we have something to talk about right
it's not the same board meeting may have
the same problem but it's not the same
board meeting so if you have kind of
Deja Vu or qbr Deja Vu right if you're
on the eaff same thing can happen in qbr
maybe you have a SAS metrics problem rat
H holding I was pretty famous for this
one personally I'm vulnerable to it um
that you you're trying to have a
conversation about the business using
metrics right that's the goal of this
stuff right we want to talk about the
business and we want to use metrics to
do that but sometimes we end up talking
about the metrics instead of the
business so the CMO is up and they say
hey we generated 1200 mqls last quarter
sales feels like they're starving
they're like what do you define an mql
ass right you ever been to this meeting
half you you have half hour later people
are still arguing about it the CMO is
probably gone in two weeks and they were
counting everybody who came to the last
user conferences an mql right um but the
point of the matter is we first we had a
bad definition of mql but second because
we didn't have it defined in advance
because we didn't agree it somebody did
something stupid and counted the wrong
thing and we spent an hour talking about
the metrics instead of the business and
that that's a problem rat holding um
next
semantics semantics is almost the
opposite case where you think you're
having a really good conversation and
then you realize some of the words don't
mean anything right like like for
example here's one of my favorite
conversations with the VP of sales hey
what's the forecast for New AR this
quarter 4.3 million oh okay what's the
most likely outcome
4.5 what what do we have
here new alert right like any
professional c will say 4.3 again even
if it's not mathematically
correct and then I say oh okay so I got
him to move once
well what are we really going to do 47 I
think if I keep asking this guy
questions I'll have them up to
five with like two more questions I can
get them up to five so so there's two
two things going on here one is the kind
of noob alert but the but the actual
problem is in What's worst case 3.5 if I
say what does most likely mean what does
best case mean I get gobble G as answers
well but my favorite definition of best
case if the stars
align how often do the stars align is is
that like a frequent occurrence or is
this something you know happens once a
month once a year right I I don't
understand that answer right so what I
encourage companies to do and most cro
hate this I think more velocity more
quantitative C are okay with it but
we're really talking about the bottom
edge of a confidence interval and when I
give the forecast to the board I want to
give a 90% confidence interval so I'm
giving them the lower bound of the 90%
confidence inal now people hate that and
if people get scared when you use those
words I have advice just say you get to
miss it once every two and a half years
that's what it means right that's
exactly what a 90% confidence means you
get to miss without getting trouble once
every 2 and 1/2 years and by the way
since you missed it last quarter and the
quarter before that you're not giving me
a 90% number right so so try and adopt
this probabilistic view on forecasting
and more importantly just try to Define
what these things mean because we have
these conversations and some of the most
important words are undefined so lack of
semantics recalculation so here here's a
a
joke how do you what's the the
difference between a venture capitalist
and a private Equity
investor there's a lot of them we could
have a lot of fun with this question
here here's my answer we'll see it for
really metric Geeks a VC asks you your
CAC a PE tells you your
CAC very good glad we got to laugh on
that but it's true right because the VCS
tend to be trusting and say what's your
CAC and tell me how you calculate it and
isn't that interesting whereas the PE
people just said to say give me all your
data I'll tell you what your CAC is
fundamentally especially in the context
of an acquisition or a fundraising I
don't really trust your numbers I'll do
it myself so if you find yourself in a
situation like I sit on a couple of
boards where one of the board members
will say you know this number is that
and I'll be like where'd you get that I
I don't see that in the deck and say oh
I recalculated all I have one of my mbas
recalculated everything I'm like this is
a symptom of a very serious problem
right we don't trust the management team
to present the correct numbers we don't
correct them to do the trust them to do
the right formulas right we we don't
trust them to update the templates if I
just say please add this row and
calculate it that way I can't even trust
them for that so I'm going to use one of
my mbas to go recalculate everything so
this is a problem recalculation
inexplicability one of my personal
favorites the company's not performing
we're missing ending cash we're behind
on ARR but when I look at all the other
metrics everything looks fine right top
of funo looks pretty good the conversion
rates are good the cost per opportunity
is okay stage one stage two conversion
is okay stage two demo is okay Dem
closes okay Jesus the asps are constant
a salale cycle is increasing like I
don't know what's going on and this does
happen um and all I can say is you've
got a problem somewhere I I if if the
top two important numbers are not being
achieved and you can't see why and all
the other numbers I can't diagnose what
the problem is but I can tell you you
have a problem and it does happen from
time to
time slide two okay so we're about
halfway through our list of metrics
signs of metrics problems here we go
dissonance the words don't match the
music right you ever know like a song
that kind of sounds sad but the lyrics
are happy or it sounds happy and the
lyrics are sad like you know
semi-charmed life upbeat number very
catchy chorus
do that song's about meth addiction
right it's all about meth addiction one
of the lines is doing crystal meth will
lift you up until you break right and it
has all these incredible words in it
that if you're not paying attention it's
like holy uh we need to look at the
lyrics of this song um and that's what
some board decks feel like right I was
spping through a board Deck with a
friend of mine the other day and it's
like well we're struggling a little bit
on AR and we're not quite there on
pmf and uh well but you know employee
satisfaction is really high and customer
STS High amongst the customers are still
here and uh the bug backlog is down and
story points are up burn rate was 7x and
and I'm like what do a crystal meth will
LIF you up until you break the burn rate
is the a burn multiple is 7x we're
spending $7 for every dollar of net new
ARR we're adding right that's like a
catastrophically bad burn multiple right
and it'll just be mixed into the song
and you're kind of not supposed to hear
it uh and the answer what's going on
here is I think it's actually a form of
avoidance that people don't want to
actually admit there's a kind of a dead
moose problem on the table and they're
talking about all the other things and
we're just letting this huge problem sit
there in the middle and not address it
so if you have dissonance I think it's
probably caused by
avoidance the next is the numeracy um
and this ultimately is a cultural issue
the symptom is very simple you go to a
board meeting or qbr or management
meeting and the only two people who ever
asked numbers answer numbers questions
are the CFO and the head of
revops anytime you ask and when you ask
when they're out of the room oh we got
to wait for Phil Phil's not here right
now when Phil comes back I I can tell
you that I can tell you average Sal like
a length in mid-market
right so part of me wers well let's give
Phil your job then because Phil can
answer my questions and you can't right
what what value at are you doing here uh
and the other is why aren't you numerate
why don't you understand your business
and ultimately I this is a cultural
issue I have a friend who calls CEOs the
chief reminding officers I don't love
that I think of the most Chief Norms
officers you're setting the norms for
this company and it's either okay or not
okay right for on a Monday morning
marketing not to know this quot to go
pipeline coverage there's only one
answer it's either okay or not okay to
know that and if it's not okay you need
to set that as a norm and in my
experience the better companies
do dja Vu so you go to the same board
meeting and it never
changes sorry you guys are really
switched on you caught that
um so I I'll just hey I put it in there
mostly for a joke but but I will say I
had a friend of mine quit his job and
that was the reason I said Ed why are
you quitting this job and he goes
because I've been to the same meeting
too many times and I actually think it's
a fantastically good reason to quit a
job right if you're always going to the
same meeting it means you're not making
progress on your problems and again
there's a difference between not making
progress on hard problems that take a
long time to fix which is fine and
literally having the same meeting every
time so so we talked about deja vu all
over again uh next disconnect where
metrics are not tied to strategy
and you know this is example of how a
company might present the second quarter
metrics new AR 85% expansion 101 churn
18 new logo 25 and I've got a lot of
problems with how this is presented
let's be clear in that other talk I'll
write for month or two from now we'll
talk about everything that's wrong with
how this is presented but but the
biggest problem I have is imagine this
company is in the middle of a mid-market
push that we're doing a lot of SNB
business the churn rates are too high
the lifetimes are too low the asps are
too low it's throwing off our CAC ratio
it's throwing off our LTV to CAC and we
think because we have some customers in
mid-market that if we just retargeted
our energy more to midmarket that we'd
do better and that's one of our top five
strategic goals for the year imagine
this company presents that chart what do
you
think you go I I can see the strategy
everywhere but in the metrics right as
you say I can see computers everywhere
but in the productivity statistics right
I could I can see strategy everywhere
but in the metrics where are they and
the answer is
here right this is what that company
should actually present where we say you
know that mid-market push that is the
number one thing we're trying to
accomplish the first metric I'm going to
show you was new AR for mid-market we're
actually 111% of plan then I'm going to
show you the ASP for new AR in
mid-market which is 140% of plan sorry
for the typo midmarket sales cycle we
were worried it was going to be long but
it's turning out to be short it's only
45 days
right midmarket pipeline coverage are we
generating enough opportunities in midm
Market yes we are we've got 3.4x our win
rate do we win mid-market deals at the
same rate because maybe we have new
competitors yes we do right it's
actually a better rate if well I don't
have there but it's actually you know
very strong wi weate 35% so to me and
yes I put the overall numbers down
because they matter in the end we are
running that business on the bottom but
our strategy one of our top five
strategic goals is to improve that
business on the top
so disconnect next peace mealing this is
super common where numbers are evaluated
in isolation not
holistically you know a VC will look
across their portfolio and think of the
best CAC the best CAC payback period the
best LTV to ca the best rule of 40 and
ask you to do you know beat them on all
four right it's it's inherently unfair
it's a form of bludgeoning right like
you want me to be the most musical kid
in my high school and the most athletic
and the best at math and the champion to
the chess club right and that just
doesn't happen right so so we need to
look at these things
holistically so peace mealing can be
dangerous because for
example given you have a high customer
acquisition cost what do we think about
your lifetimes so if you've got really
low children a really long lifetime
might be worth it hey we're getting
people who going be sticky for 10 12
years we could afford a CAC of 1.9 C
ratio of 1.9 right I need to look at
them together given your high growth
rate right say you're growing at
120% that's going to drive your CAC up
because CAC is a function of growth rate
enterprise software because you're
carrying unproductive SL ramping
resources right so we need to think of
these things holistically think of them
in little groups and peace mealing in
the end when you just take them one by
one you're losing insight and you're
probably in all likelihood just
bludgeoning it's a it's a different
bludgeoning
technique next Miss benchmarking I love
benchmarks there's lots of great bench
marks out there I think it's really
important to compare ourselves to others
I don't think we should just
automatically try to be you know 75th
percentile on every metric you know
across the board that that's not wise
these things should be a function of
strategy but I think we should know them
I think we should know what those people
do and we should understand how they
work together and and Mis benchmarking
happens for a couple of reasons one is
some benchmarks are just highly selected
biased right whoever answered the survey
okay uh and you may have bootstrap
companies in there you may have peack
companies that want to sell in three
years for 18 time Zita and you may have
Venture Capital moonshots that want to
grow at 250% all the way up to 300
million AR right and you're putting them
together in a benchmark and saying the
average C ratio is
1.4 it's like hey wait a minute this
kind of crazy and and normally you can
segment these by size or growth rate
that's good but I actually think the
best way to segment them is by
aspiration that that if we could and
nobody offers these yet but I want you
just consider this this concept that we
should segment benchmarks by aspiration
which is if I want to sell for 18 times
EA in 3 years boy wouldn't be nice if I
could compare myself to other companies
shooting for that goal right analogy if
I want to go to Harvard I should compare
my SAT scores not to the average but to
the group of people who apply to Harvard
right in this case Harvard is an IPO
right if I want to go public and be an
IPO track company I can't for to take a
concrete example take 104% a r r out of
a blended Benchmark when that Harvard
cohort has 125%
RR right I need to Benchmark against
people who are trying to do the same
things I'm
doing correlation and causation I'll
just give you a simple example I think
we all know what this is but for example
the VP of customer success says all the
customers who churned had multiple escal
escalations they're having escalations
because we don't have enough agents the
agents are too busy we need to reduce
Turner and hire agents
that might be correct but but you cannot
by any means say that that simple
correlation is causation right more
likely in this particular example maybe
the product isn't working and that's why
the agents are getting all the calls
resulting in all the escalations and if
you want to fix this right like ice
cream deaths temperature and drowning
right the underlying driver is
temperature that drives more swimming
and more ice cream consumption that's
why they correlate right in this case
the underlying driver is the product's
not working so we should fix that so we
have to be very careful because I watch
companies do this I gave you a super
obvious example but I watch companies do
this all the time they do some deep
analysis of churn so we're going to
focus on these three and they're acting
as if it's causal and there's no reason
whatsoever to believe that it's
correlated yes is it causal we need to
look more torture is the last one so we
made it through the list where people
you know basically this is particularly
bad but a board member does it but they
arrive with a hypothesis about what the
company what's wrong and then they do
what's called confirmation bias right
they they want to prove themselves right
so they will kind of selectively filter
and torture the data in order to do so
and we all know the old expression but
just in case you don't right if you
torture the data long enough it will
confess to anything right so so so we
can prove almost anything with the data
if we're determined enough right and
that's not the point so I'll just give
you one crazy example this company walks
in and says hey we've got a 5% shurn
rate and go that's amazing um so you
have a 20-year lifetime which means even
if you're CAC ratio is like two you're
going to have a LTV to CAC of like 10
plus this is amazing God fantastic
company and they kind of see the data
and they put this up and go hey wait
wait a minute wait a wa a minute uh your
your TR rate is 25% you lost 500 out of
2 million in ARR so your your your your
net turn rate is 25% if you exclude
expansion you can check the math on me
the gross turn is 29% your logo churn is
5% you've only lost one logo but the
reason you only lost one logo is
what you renewed four customers for a
dollar right you renewed four customers
of a dollar to kind of juice your logo
churn rate to juice your lifetimes to
juice your LTV to cat right and and the
question is so those four $1 renewals
are Harding the problem and you know do
people actually do this you might wonder
and the answer is yeah people do this is
an old Chevron ad but people do I
competed against company that did $1
renewals um and they would juice their
turn rates so they could offset their
SAS metrics so that's what I would call
an extreme case of kind of twisting SAS
metrics that's why you need to look at
both logo churn and dollar churn so
let's now look at a what's going on here
let's talk about the SAS metrics
maturity model but there's kind of five
underlying problems here one there's no
shared metrics Foundation no definitions
what they mean how they're calculated
two there's no trust in the data
calculations formulas that the story
being told matches the data and that we
aren't using metrics to either bludgeon
or mislead there's no trust second root
cause third metrics are not integral to
strategy that and I think this happens
because people view metrics is a
financing thing oh we need to raise
around somebody go calculate all the SAS
metrics because they're going to ask
about them right and you haven't burned
them in to your day-to-day
operations right because they're not
linked to your Strat there may not even
be linked to day-to-day Ops it's just
something you do for financing all the
VCS are going to ask um the culture is
not metrics driven we talked about this
is you know is numeracy a prerequisite
for to have conversations about the
business is it tolerated if you're not
and then metrics are not being used this
is more of an opportunity cost we
haven't talked about but metrics are not
being used to define the trajectory and
long-term goals of the business because
when you get the other four taken care
of this is then what you do next you say
hey wait a minute what are we trying to
accomplish over the next 3 to 5 years
and how's that going to impact our
business because if we open Europe
that's going to hit our CAC ratio in the
short term sorry we're going to be
opening a bunch of offices hiring a
bunch salespeople they won't be selling
anything that's going to be bad for CAC
in next year and the year after it'll be
good for growth in the years after that
right ditto for an R&D investment hey we
do something inefficient in the software
if we you know did a big R&D project we
could make it more efficient reduce our
cogs it will hit R&D in years one and
two and show up in cogs in year three
and four and to have these conversations
you need kind of a long-term
driver-based model and you need to think
about your strategic priorities so
towards this end I built this SAS
metrics maturity model where we have
those five layers level and we're going
to talk about each in a minute more
detail level one is foundation which is
definition calics and semantics level
two is trust and I'll say it a couple of
times here but templates build trust
just if you can only get one notion from
this entire talk templates build trust
so we're going to talk about templates
uh Cadence how you use them right and
then continuous Improvement how we
always make them better level three is
linking metrics of strategy level four
is culture and level five is trajectory
and I could just say that improving SAS
metrics maturity is a journey there is
uh even layer one layer one has taken me
with certain companies I work with
quarters and I walk in every time I have
this kind of entrepreneurial blind spot
going this is going to be easy me head
of FP CFO we'll get this nailed in 30
days 60 days every time I do that and
most of the time 34s later we're still
working on it and it's good right I mean
if you ask Founders if you had any idea
how hard it would be would you start
your company again and most say no right
so so I actually view this is an
endearing and valuable trait of someone
who's entrepreneurial is we radically
misunder misunderestimate that say
George bushism we radically misestimate
the amount of work it is to do something
and it's actually some ways very helpful
because we get fresh on it every time so
but it is hard you can't plan on having
this done in a few weeks uh the change
management is hard it may require staff
upgrades particularly key analytics
roles like revops fpna sometimes those
people are not that strategic they're
not that fast right that they're good at
making a budget and they're good at
getting comp plans done but they're not
really good at thinking about the
business um we require meeting changes
to Cadence to the agenda and requires TR
know TR I don't want to get all touchy
feely here but um trust and the
willingness to be vulnerable if you're
going to put these metrics out there and
somebody clubs you to death with them
that's not going to feel real good right
so we have to be careful that we make
sure the board doesn't Club us and then
we don't Club the exec staff by looking
at them so let's now look at each of
these five layers uh one the foundation
so we've talked about what this means
before two well one two new things on
this slide one sometimes this requires
the rework of underlying systems I most
of the companies I've worked with that
have this problem in Europe for some
reason but they don't produce a standard
SAS pnl they produce a nature-based p&l
not a function-based p&l and you can't
do SAS metrics off a nature-based p&l
right they would literally go GL account
by GL account map it to sales and
marketing and you know once a year
they'd calculate their CAC ratio because
their p&l was not set up to do it and
boom that's a 9month delay you want to
know how it takes 9mon to fix Tas
matrics step one change your accounting
system in your chart of accounts right
but you have to do it and there's no
time like the present to start
the other thing I'd say on this and this
is again from hard hard learned
experience offboard this to metrics
committees there are people like me who
care and rather than trying to do this
with the whole e staff or God help you
the whole board say I think we should
get a committee of interested people who
want to meet you know once or twice a
month to work with fpna CFO Ops to make
sure we have the templates you guys want
to see in the meeting and we put people
on the committee and we let them work
this is the answer to how to improve
your staff metrics delegate the problem
to people who care let them work give
them time have them check back in second
build trust templates build trust
templates build trust why because
there's no cherry-picking and the most
common form of misleading is cherry
picking we just leave stuff out we don't
talk about expansion ARR being so far
off plan last quarter somehow it just
didn't make the slide and when you have
good templates you can't lead stuff out
so we decide everything that we're going
to show we show every time it never
changes and we provide triling five or
triling nine quarters of history and we
provide contexts like the plan or the
most recent forecast or last year right
or last quarter so it's rich in context
and there's nowhere to hide and I
honestly believe that templates build
trust it's the only way I know to build
trust is to keep working on the
templates and then keep making them
better the other thing is fixed data at
the source right as long as people are
adjusted tting data out of systems in
spreadsheets and putting it back in no
right you must become kind of a a
fascist about we will fix the underlying
systems we will fix the transforms we
will get this stuff done in a
systematized way three link to strategy
so I love strategy I love this guy
Richard rumelt he's written two good
books one's called good strategy bad
strategy the other one's called the Crux
tick whatever one you want but the the
point of all strategy is to identify
your biggest challenges and make plans
to overcome them it's that simple and
the thing that operators get wrong is
they don't they don't have empathy for
the board so for example let's say we're
back to that company that's trying to do
an up Market push and we want ASP to be
one of our key results we're going to do
this up Market push because we think the
ASP is going to come up there's two ways
to approach this one is just make ASP an
okr and we'll wait till the end of the
year to see if it
changed and you're effectively telling
the board trust me I got this trust me
it's going to change and and maybe it'll
change on a quarterly basis but that's
that's not fast enough and by the way
the last three guys sorry said trust me
so so as the board member I'm not really
in a very trusting mood right now
because the last three Coos have said
trust me it's not good enough if you
want me to trust you give me some
leading indicators right and I'm going
to use a sailing metaphor here I'm not a
big sailor but I did take sailing
lessons um and when a boat TS the bow
goes through the wind at some point
right so so I want to know in a metric
sense when is the bowel going through
the wind there's actually signs before
that the sa starts fluing there's thing
called tell tales on the sales that will
tell you you're starting to execute the
maneuver we want tell Tales we want Ling
we want bow going through the wind it to
to make that less nautical and more
literal what if we looked at the ASP of
deals in the pipeline if that was bigger
in midmarket wouldn't that be a leading
indicator of closing deals right with a
higher SP from mid Market yes it would
right that's a lead leading indicator
that's a Telltale it's not the KR the KR
is to get ASP up for real but the
leading indicator is to look at the ASP
of the midmarket segment in the pipeline
right so I don't have to just say trust
me four metrics culture this we've
talked about it's really a choice um and
the goal is to not have conversation
about metrics but conversations about
the business using metrics my favorite
quote on this it's an old one but I love
this quote if we have data let's look at
the data if all we have opinions let's
go with mine uh and if you say if you
say that enough in your staff meeting
maybe people will get the hint right and
start showing up with data and then
finally agree on strategic trajectory we
haven't talked as much about this as I
would have liked but I do have a blog
post on this called Glide slope planning
this the metaphor I use on how we want
to take this company to its exit and
it's all about using models to do
basically timing sequencing convergence
so we're going to do some Q&A let me
just wrap up here with our last slide
before we go to Q&A but you know SAS
metrics can be used as tools of
Enlightenment oppression or observation
uh seen all three we've talked about 15
symptoms of a SAS metrics problem we've
introduced a five layer SAS metrics
maturity model which you can use to both
kind of locate yourself and make your
road map and uh we discussed things you
could do at each level to build your SAS
metric maturity
thank